# Mobile Inventory Management System
# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
For this course, I developed an Android application that would allow users to interface with a database containing a warehouse's inventory data. This app required a user login system, a screen that displayed contents of a database, and SMS notifications for items running out of stock. This app was designed to address the need for a simple, lightweight inventory management system.
# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
This app needed to have a login screen where users could enter a username and password to gain access to the main activity, where users could then add, update, or remove items from the database. Items from the database were presented in a scrollable list where individual items could be selected using radio buttons. The app also delivers SMS messages when item quantities reach zero, if users enable this feature through the corresponding screen. The UI for this app keeps users in mind by clearly displaying all of the app's features in an intuitive way, making it easy to navigate and use.
# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
When coding this app, I utilized a MVC design pattern to separate the app into three elements. Each part of the project was built incrementally, with testing taking place frequently as new features were added. Both of these strategies could be applied in the future as a MVC design can be used to create many different types of apps and programs. Frequent testing is now and will continue to be part of the strategy I utilize when writing code of any kind.
# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I tested the functionality of my code using both Android Studio's Android Emulator, and a physical Android device. The Android Emulator was very useful when writing major pieces of code for the app, such as the database display, where I was regularly utilizing Logcat to debug issues. Other aspects of the development such as building the app's layout were much easier using a physical device because I was able to actually feel how the app was working. Using more than one method of testing is important because no single test can catch every issue with an app. Instead, different methods can be combined to deliver a more thoroughly tested final product.
# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
While not necessarily innovative, I worked to overcome some challenges that I came across when implementing the ListView used to display the contents of the inventory database. I was having trouble selecting items to update or delete from the database using the radio buttons that were on each line. After reviewing the Android documentation, reading several forum posts, and watching a couple YouTube videos, I was able to successfully add this feature into the app.
# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
The database functionality this app has was the best showcase of my knowledge and experience while creating this app. This required knowledge of the Android API, coding in Java, and utilizing a SQLite database to accomplish. This was a relatively simple app to create, but future projects will be able to take this knowledge and expand upon it further.
